README.md, before:

![GitHub Pages](https://github.com/gabrielchiconi/league-client-pwa/workflows/GitHub%20Pages/badge.svg)

# My quest trying to recreate League of Legends's launcher as a Progressive Web App

Anyone who's ever played **League of Legends** knows the launcher is notoriously slow.

As developers, we know that performance is a tradeoff. If you put time into improving it, you'll take that time away from new features.

I try to be understanding as much as possible, because we all know the struggles of undermanned teams being forced to add new features before they've improved existing ones. It's the business drive added to people not caring about the launcher's performance as much as they say they do -- most people have mid- to high-end computers they game on, anyways. I don't, though, and a significant amount of people get annoyed by the game client's low performance and bugs.

So, while I know that Riot may or may not be to blame for the client's current performance issues -- you could make arguments both ways regarding its priority in their schedule -- I decided I'd try to clone the client and see for myself: **is it possible to make League's client perform better?** While it obviously is, it's unclear whether the possible improvements are large enough that Riot should devote a larger time to this task.

Even if I succeed, the results here are not to be taken as definitive proof that Riot has their priorities wrong -- my launcher clone probably doesn't have as many bindings to external APIs, OS APIs, telemetry, and legacy device support that is most likely invisible to us end users. And if I do not succeed, I hope this teaches me (and possibly others) about the real shortcomings of modern fast-development frameworks sucha as HTML5.

## Dev log

## 06/08/2020, part 2

I came back later to finish menu state management and moving the little code I've added to React. Instead of Sass, I decided I'd use CSS in JS via styled-components so that elements are reusable.

It took a while to set everything up -- Typescript and ESLint in particular. I've configured TSX projects many times in the past, but there's always so much boilerplate that it's easy to forget something (this time it was the basic recommended tyepscript-eslint configuration that was missing, leading to weird style errors in VS Code).

Now that everything is React, I can probably resume recreating the client. Next steps are probably adding Redux and Saga for state management and a router to navigate between the tabs and screens. I've also fixed a bug with importing the font, so now it's actually in use.

### 06/08/2020

Started working on the app. So far I've managed to make it installable as a PWA on Chrome and fixed the window size to 1280x720 (one of the available client sizes). While small for most people, it fits laptop screens and is easier for me to work with.

I've managed to clone the "Play" button and main navigation with CSS. It's not 1:1 with the current client but I don't expect anything to be during the early stages. Plus it's really close.

I'll probably switch to using React over the next few days. I didn't want to do that initially, but it's going to be easier to do all the heavy lifting with regards to navigation, component reuse, state management and whatnot.

I've already set up Typescript and ESLint to keep development fast and easy. Also, I'm using Parcel for bundling and have set up the PWA installation on desktop -- this is probably what we'll use as the basis for the launcher.

Commit message:

Update color scheme; update menu arrow

README.md, after:

![GitHub Pages](https://github.com/gabrielchiconi/league-client-pwa/workflows/GitHub%20Pages/badge.svg)

# My quest trying to recreate League of Legends's launcher as a Progressive Web App

Anyone who's ever played **League of Legends** knows the launcher is notoriously slow.

As developers, we know that performance is a tradeoff. If you put time into improving it, you'll take that time away from new features.

I try to be understanding as much as possible, because we all know the struggles of undermanned teams being forced to add new features before they've improved existing ones. It's the business drive added to people not caring about the launcher's performance as much as they say they do -- most people have mid- to high-end computers they game on, anyways. I don't, though, and a significant amount of people get annoyed by the game client's low performance and bugs.

So, while I know that Riot may or may not be to blame for the client's current performance issues -- you could make arguments both ways regarding its priority in their schedule -- I decided I'd try to clone the client and see for myself: **is it possible to make League's client perform better?** While it obviously is, it's unclear whether the possible improvements are large enough that Riot should devote a larger time to this task.

Even if I succeed, the results here are not to be taken as definitive proof that Riot has their priorities wrong -- my launcher clone probably doesn't have as many bindings to external APIs, OS APIs, telemetry, and legacy device support that is most likely invisible to us end users. And if I do not succeed, I hope this teaches me (and possibly others) about the real shortcomings of modern fast-development frameworks sucha as HTML5.

## Dev log

## 07/08/2020

Yesterday I managed to set up GitHub Actions and Pages so the app is installable by everyone. It even became installable on mobile, but it's really strange there; I don't plan to make "responsive League" a thing just yet, especially because you can't play League from mobile, so you would only be able to manage your profile and read news.

I fixed the color theme a bit, it's still not exactly Riot's but I managed to get the colors from the client this time around using a color picker. I also delved a bit into `mask-image` to make interesting gradient hacks with CSS.

## 06/08/2020, part 2

I came back later to finish menu state management and moving the little code I've added to React. Instead of Sass, I decided I'd use CSS in JS via styled-components so that elements are reusable.

It took a while to set everything up -- Typescript and ESLint in particular. I've configured TSX projects many times in the past, but there's always so much boilerplate that it's easy to forget something (this time it was the basic recommended tyepscript-eslint configuration that was missing, leading to weird style errors in VS Code).

Now that everything is React, I can probably resume recreating the client. Next steps are probably adding Redux and Saga for state management and a router to navigate between the tabs and screens. I've also fixed a bug with importing the font, so now it's actually in use.

### 06/08/2020

Started working on the app. So far I've managed to make it installable as a PWA on Chrome and fixed the window size to 1280x720 (one of the available client sizes). While small for most people, it fits laptop screens and is easier for me to work with.

I've managed to clone the "Play" button and main navigation with CSS. It's not 1:1 with the current client but I don't expect anything to be during the early stages. Plus it's really close.

I'll probably switch to using React over the next few days. I didn't want to do that initially, but it's going to be easier to do all the heavy lifting with regards to navigation, component reuse, state management and whatnot.

I've already set up Typescript and ESLint to keep development fast and easy. Also, I'm using Parcel for bundling and have set up the PWA installation on desktop -- this is probably what we'll use as the basis for the launcher.
